------------------------
Corrections and Comments
------------------------

David Huard, Nov. 10, 2008


General Comments
----------------

The guide is well written and concise. The writing style is relaxed, which makes reading the guide a pleasant experience compared to R's terse and formal documents. I think the
document describes in enough details the general working of pymc, though some users would probably be thankful for more examples. Since the intended audience probably goes from python novices to experts and MCMC newbies to gurus and all permutations, it is probably worthwhile to flesh out the introduction to provide more references and state the assumed competence of readers with respect to these topics. 

With respect to the document structure, the only serious glitch I see is the theoretical section on Monte-Carlo methods. It appears right between the `Tutorial` and the `Building Model` sections. In a sense, it distracts readers from the main topic which is understanding how pymc works and what it can do. My feeling is that it would be more appropriate as an appendix, with ample references to it in the text. Apart from that, an abstract and a conclusion are missing. 
[AP] Do we really need an abstract and conclusion, even for JSS?
[DH] Maybe not an abstract, but some kind of conclusion (what's next, get involved, ...) would still be nice. 

Specific Comments
-----------------

 * Use the JSS style.
 * In the logo on the first page, the ship's trace has weird looking diagonal cuts. [AP] I'll work on it.
 * I had trouble latexing the file, specifically, I had to comment the includegraphics call for the poor_mixing figure (got endcsname errors), and bibtex complains about a missing cross-ref to Bernardo, altough it is there in the bib file. 
 * Harmonize class names typeface.  


The line number is defined with respect to the pdf created from revision 954 with the 
lineno package. 


Line	Comment
----    ------------------------------------------------------------------------
4-7   	The intro needs to be fleshed out, with more examples of usage and a description of the structure of the document. 
8 		The features are a bit ragtag. Try to put some uniformity in there, bullet point style.
28 		Not sure an example of usage should go in so early in the text. 
[AP] I like this bit here- I think it has a good chance of hooking window-shoppers with short attention spans.
60   	Markov chain Monte Carlo (MCMC)
61		The choice... maybe give more arguments to switch away from BUGS. 
[AP] I think we should studiously avoid saying anything bad about BUGS or R, even if it means being less-than-explicit about the pros and cons, and just let people make their own decisions based on the features.
89 		replace g77 with gfortran, add a note about intel's compiler issues. 
91 		The instructions would probably be simpler if the binaries and source were all on pypi. This needs to be done anyway, so it is as well to document the way it is going to be. 
138 	Add mailing list info and link. 


160 	Should we put the node graph ? 
[AP] Tricky one. Ecologists seem to dislike node graphs for the most part, but some of the machine learning types that have been cropping up on the list would like them.
[CF] I just published one in Endangered Species Research, and they did not seem to mind. They are particularly useful for very complex models.
178		Wondering if it would be best to replace from pymc import ... by import pymc.
[AP] In the tutorial, I'd vote for from pymc import *.
[CF] from pymc import * is almost universally discouraged these days, because of namespace concerns. Dont want to encourage bad habits ...
273		Explain the new interface to the traces. 
[AP] Actually, you ought to update this with the new trace slicing conventions.
[DH] Will do.

827		Maybe say a few words about the fact that the parameters of the multivariate normal are estimated using derivatives at the maximum a posteriori values: variances are estimated using partial derivatives and correlation coefficients using mixed partial derivatives ( and this is why discrete variables can't be fitted). 
[AP] Sometimes they work if you use Nelder-Mead, but it gets kind of wishy-washy. 

925		How ?
927		More info. 
938		Provide more info about the method. 
952		step method printed output. 
954		cite and add a reference. 
[AP] You mean a reference for conjugate submodels in addition to Wikipedia, or the fact that they can be handled by Gibbs? I guess the latter is probably in Gilks, but would need to look.
[DH] I mean display it as a reference and put the full url in the references section.
961		not in the sandbox anymore.
[AP] If they aren't, they should be. :)
[DH] Again, my bad.
1010	check sentence
1045	disk no comma
1057  	txt now has support for restore_state
1065	all applications runnning 
1070	<>
1080	hdf5 typeface
1081	Flesh out, remove mature comments.
1084 	Flesh out, remove mature comments.
1135	principle reason
1177 	Put a figure ?
1187	I get weird looking symbols here. 
[AP] me too.
1271	This section ... strange transition, and not really a section.


Bibiliography
* Harmonize first names (abbreviations with or without periods or full name)
* Gelman, 1996:  Posterior predictive
* Geweke, period after pages. 
* Should we really put links to scopus and jstor ?

